# React Workshop

Hi, welcome to the React Workshop! This should give you a good basic theory of
React that will allow you to pretty much understand everything happening at our
workshop. Maybe a few notes about theory: A theory is not useful in some sense.
It helps us to explain things we see and maybe predict some things. Newton could
explain why an apple fell on his head with his theory and predict bunch of
really useful stuff BUT you cannot build anything usefull with it. You always
need a lot more mechanical engineering concepts for example.

So yeah, this is a THEORY of React and thus you will NOT be able to build
anything useful with this. Or at least I do not expect to. We will show how to
make use of this theory in the workshop! It's is for you the be able to explain
the things that will happen.

## How to read.

Read it like a book (top to bottom, left to right, why am I explaining this).
However, there will be some text that are Links like [ This
](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dQw4w9WgXcQ). At this points, you shall follow
the Link (by Clicking it, omg you aint stupid) and come back once you read that
chapter. 

## Guide

First, I would advise you to have a look into [History of Frontend
Devlopment](./history-of-web/history.md) which will help you understand why
things are the way they are and why it will probably not stay that way.

Now, that you know the pain of front end development, we shall introduce the
basics of react, that is how to make simple *components*. For this checkout this
chapter about [React Components](./react-basics/components/components.md).

We should know be able to understand the understand the relationship between
React components and HTML elements. But you may remember the HTML element

```html
<img src="some url"/>
```

Well this looks different than a normal `<div>` because it takes a weird thingy 
`src` which you can assign an url to. Learn more about it in the chapter about
[Properties](./react-basics/props/props.md).
